ITEM 3: MEASURES TO SNSURE SPEEDY CLEARANCE OF RADIOGRAMS BETWEEN BORDER STATIONS WHERE AT PRCSENT DELAYS ARE TAK ING PLACE.

In planning the operations special attention to the ne for isolating the Jagner Police Station ara of Uttar Pradosh which projecte opportunity to tho lacoits to evade polico persuit.

17. The Socretary Ministry of Home Affairs (Shri V. Viswanathan) statcd that so far as administrative and oper- ational arrangements for cnsuring spccdy clearance of radio- grams were conccrned thc problem would not present.any great difficulty; however there would be difficulty in making available any adlitional frcquencies for such wirelcss operations. It was accordingly decided that the Policc Wirelcss Orficcrs of the three Stats should mcet as quickly as possible and work out thc arrangoments rcquired. If thore Was any difficulty the Director of Coorlination Polico Wirelcss of thc Governmers cf India should bo called in to assist.

ii) Expcricncod nd vigorous polico officers should bo available for anti-lacoity operations.

iii) Vigorous action shoull be takcn against harbourors also thc Do fenco of Inlia Rulcs if nccossary.

iv) Thc Intclligcnce sot-up in the dacoity arcas good sourcc of information

v) Within thc over-all priorities noccssitated by dofcnce requiremcnts, anti-dacoity oporations should bo givon prc ferontial trcatm nt in the matter of supplios of arms ani ammunition, vehiclcs and wireloss cquipment.

ITEM 4:THE SCOPE OF SURVEY OTHE ACOITY PROBLEM

18. The Council worc informed of certain survcys and other investigations alrcaly conductcd on tho question of recla- mation and thc schomes thst hal beon prepared in the Various States for this purpose unlor thc Third Five Year Plan. It was felt that the linc of action alroady chalkod out in the Third Plan might bc pursed vigorosly and that for the proscnt no sociological or other surycy of the dacoity problem was callcd for

19. In a gerieral discussion tho thrro Inspectors General of Policc cxpresscd thle serious difficultics they were facing for want of sufficicht aloction of fircarms and ammunition for the anti-lacoity opcrations. They said that the vehicles and wircless cquipm nt wero also not bcing allotted. There was al so somc dirficulty with rogarl to clothing. The Chairman assurcd that cvry possiblo cndcavour woul be made to mcet the demands of tho Statoswho wcre facel with dacoity problom and desirod that this aspcct might bo specially looked into by the Ministry or Homc Affairs.

ITEM 5: SPECIAL FACIL ITIES FOR THE REHABIL ITATION OF TIE FAMIELS OE DACOITS.

There was a general liscussion on thc dacoity problem of thc Chambal area an tho following docisions werc taken:-

It was folt that thc recomronlations for special facilitics for acoits childron woro bascd on the fallacy that dacoits children tond to ba dacoits, This had not bcon thc gcncral cxperiencc an only very few cascs of this kind had bcon nticod. An cnquiry by I.G.P.U.P. into the circumstanccs of the familics of tho dacoits who had surrondcrcd to charaya Vinoba Bhavo had shown that almost all of them wcro very well off and wsrc cducating their chilarcn well.

The Se cretary Ministry of Homo affairs might kecp in touch with tho thrce Inspoctors-Gcneral of Police for this purposc.

.....9,
....10.
